Internal Solution for Clocktree (Closed PR#1470 and replaced with this) (#1474)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/USACO feb20-clocktree-silver.mdx

---
id: usaco-1016
source: USACO Silver 2020 February
title: Clock Tree
author: Melody Yu
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_clocktree_silver_feb20.html)

We can build a graph with the rooms as nodes and corridors as edges. Consider a simple case: there are 2 nodes in the graph and one edge.
Bessie can start from one of the rooms, go to its neighbor, increase the clock, go back, and increase the starting room's clock.
During this process of moving back and forth, notice that the difference between two rooms' clock readings may only change by 1.
If the starting clock readings differ by one, Bessie can start from the bigger clock reading room and travel back and forth until both of the clocks point to 12.
If the starting clock readings differ by more than one, it is impossible for Bessie to make both clocks point to 12.

> If there are more nodes, we can treat it similar to 2 nodes by partitioning all the nodes into 2 groups and making this problem a bipartite graph problem. All trees here are biparte graphs, meaning no nodes will have multiple colors. We can partition the nodes into two groups using DFS, assuming that any two neighbor nodes belong to different groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are more nodes, we can treat it similar to two node case by considering the two groups in a bipartite partition. Note that all trees are bipartite graphs, so this partition will always be successful.
```

Just a heads up, it's "bipartite," not "biparte."

Author: @frodakcin committed, thanks! Could you check it again?

Every time Bessie visits a neighbor node, the sum of clocks of the group that Bessie visits increase by 1.
Then Bessie visits another neighbor node, the sum of clocks of the second group increase by 1.
As both groups increase clock by one, the difference between the sum of clocks for these two groups does not change.
This process repeats until clocks in 1 or 2 groups reach all 12.

We can check the initial sum difference between two groups (mod 12) to figure out the final clock numbers.

1. If group0 is same as group2 (mod 12), Bessie can start from any nodes
2. If group0 is 1 smaller than group1 (mod 12), Bessie starts from any node of group1
3. if group1 is 1 smaller than group0 (mod 12), Bessie starts from any node of group0
4. If group0 and group1 differ by more than 2 (mod 12), there's no way to get all 12

## Video Solution

<Youtube id="vMA54A2AT0I" />

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

> ```cpp

Reviewer 2: use tabs instead of spaces to indent

Author: Edited, thanks!

Reviewer 2: it still looks like spaces to me?

Author: I tried changing the spaces to tabs, is it fine now? By the way how do you visually check spaces vs tabs in github? I really don't know how to X,D

Reviewer 2: still looks like spaces to me... on github, tabs are wider than 4 spaces (and in editor it looks different)
spaces: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/63619830/118427471-1ccaf980-b682-11eb-86c5-fdb988116395.png)
tabs:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/63619830/118427493-29e7e880-b682-11eb-9692-3760263d523f.png)

#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int N;
vector<int> edges[100000];
int A[100000];
int sum0, sum1, nodes0, nodes1;

void dfs(int i, int color, int par) {
    // update color/sum
    if (color == 0) {
        nodes0++;
        sum0 += A[i];
    } else {
        nodes1++;
        sum1 += A[i];
    }

>     for(int j=0;j<edges[i].size();j++) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    for(int j = 0; j < edges[i].size(); j++) {
```

        if (edges[i][j] != par) {
            // swap colors for the child
            dfs(edges[i][j], 1 - color, i);
        }
    }
}

int main() {

>     freopen("clocktree.in","r",stdin);
>     freopen("clocktree.out","w",stdout);
> 
>     int a,b;
>     cin >> N;
> 
>     for(int i = 0; i < N; i++) {
>         cin >> A[i];
>     }
> 
>     for(int i = 1; i < N; i++) {
>         cin >> a >> b;
>         a--,b--;
>         edges[a].push_back(b);
>         edges[b].push_back(a);
>     }
> 
>     dfs(0,0,-1);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    freopen("clocktree.in", "r", stdin);
    freopen("clocktree.out", "w", stdout);

    int a, b;
    cin >> N;

    for(int i = 0; i < N; i++) {
        cin >> A[i];
    }

    for(int i = 1; i < N; i++) {
        cin >> a >> b;
        a--, b--;
        edges[a].push_back(b);
        edges[b].push_back(a);
    }

    dfs(0, 0, -1);
```

    // same mod means you can start anywhere
    if((sum0 % 12) == (sum1 % 12)) {
        cout << N;
    }

>         // if group0 is 1 smaller than group1, start from group1

Reviewer 2: are these comments supposed to be indented?

Author: Edited, thanks!

>     else if ((sum0 + 1)%12 == (sum1 % 12)) {
>         cout << nodes1;
>     }
>         // if group1 is 1 smaller than group0, start from group0
>     else if((sum0 % 12) == ((sum1 + 1)%12)) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    else if((sum0 + 1) % 12 == (sum1 % 12)) {
        cout << nodes1;
    }
        // if group1 is 1 smaller than group0, start from group0
    else if((sum0 % 12) == ((sum1 + 1) % 12)) {
```

---
id: usaco-1016
source: USACO Silver 2020 February
title: Clock Tree
author: Melody Yu
---

[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_clocktree_silver_feb20.html)

> We can build a graph with the rooms as nodes and corriddors as edges. Consider a simple case: there are 2 nodes in the graph and one edge.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can build a graph with the rooms as nodes and corridors as edges. Consider a simple case: there are 2 nodes in the graph and one edge.
```

> Bessie can start from one of the rooms, go to its neighbor, increase the clock go back and increase the starting room's clock.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Bessie can start from one of the rooms, go to its neighbor, increase the clock, go back, and increase the starting room's clock.
```

She can go back and forth until one (or both) rooms' clock reaches 12. During this process, we noticed that the difference between two rooms' clock readings are not changed.

> If the starting clock readings differ by one, Bessie can start from the bigger clock reading room and travels back and forth until both of the clocks point to 12.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the starting clock readings differ by one, Bessie can start from the bigger clock reading room and travel back and forth until both of the clocks point to 12.
```

If the starting clock readings differ by more than one, it is impossible for Bessie to make both clocks point to 12.

> If there are more nodes, we can treat it similar to 2 nodes by partition all the nodes in to 2 groups and make this problem a biparte graph problem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there are more nodes, we can treat it similar to 2 nodes by partitioning all the nodes into 2 groups and make this problem a biparte graph problem.
```

> We can partition the nodes into two groups using DFS if 2 neighbor nodes belongs to different groups.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can partition the nodes into two groups using DFS if 2 neighbor nodes belong to different groups.
```

> We can partition the nodes into two groups using DFS if 2 neighbor nodes belong to different groups.

Author: Sorry, what do you mean by "all trees are bipartite" ? Can you explain a bit further where :.D?

> We can partition the nodes into two groups using DFS if 2 neighbor nodes belong to different groups.

Reviewer: All trees are bipartite graphs. (this two coloring will never run into coloring a node in multi colors)

> Every time Bessie visits a neighbor node, the sum of clocks of the group that Bessie visits increase by 1.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Every time Bessie visits a neighbor node, the sum of clocks of the group that Bessie visits increases by 1.
```

> Then Bessie visits another neighbor node, the sum of clocks of the second group increase by 1.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then Bessie visits another neighbor node, the sum of clocks of the second group increases by 1.
```

> As both groups increase clock by one, the difference between the sum of clocks for these two groups does not change.

Reviewer 4: "increase clock by one" sounds odd to me

```suggestion
As both sums increase by one, the difference between the sums does not change.
```

> This process repeats until clocks in 1 or 2 groups reach all 12.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This process repeats until all clocks reach 12.
```

> This process repeats until clocks in 1 or 2 groups reache all 12.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This process repeats until clocks in 1 or 2 groups reach all 12.
```

> We can check the initial sum difference between the two groups (mod 12) to figure out the final clock numbers, where we define group0 and group1 as the two remaining groups we have.

Reviewer 4: > the two remaining groups we have

what does "remaining" mean here?

Author: Is it clearer now?

> We can check the initial sum difference between two groups (mod 12) to figure out the final clock numbers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We can check the initial sum difference between the two groups (mod 12) to figure out the final clock numbers.
```

> 1. If group0 is the same as group1 (mod 12), Bessie can start from any node.

Reviewer 4: The last two comments here were not resolved:

https://github.com/cpinitiative/usaco-guide/pull/1474#discussion_r637164340

Reviewer 5: oops, missed this D: @cskitty ?

Author: Fixed the comments, sorry about the lateness!

> We can check the initial sum difference between the two groups (mod 12) to figure out the final clock numbers, where we define group0 and group1 as the two groups we get after putting all rooms into the bipartite partition.

Reviewer 4: aren't group0 and group1 actually defined to be the sums of the clocks in each of the two groups of the bipartite partition, not the groups themselves?

Author: How is it now?

Reviewer 4: looks good, thanks!

> 1. If group0 is same as group2 (mod 12), Bessie can start from any node

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. If group0 is the same as group1 (mod 12), Bessie can start from any node.
```

Reviewer 4: also, group and group1 were never defined

Reviewer 4: other lines should end with periods as well

Author: Fixed both, sorry!

> 1. If group0 is same as group2 (mod 12), Bessie can start from any nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If group0 is same as group2 (mod 12), Bessie can start from any node
```

2. If group0 is 1 smaller than group1 (mod 12), Bessie starts from any node of group1

> 3. if group1 is 1 smaller than group0 (mod 12), Bessie starts from any node of group0

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. If group1 is 1 smaller than group0 (mod 12), Bessie starts from any node of group0
```

> 4. If group0 and group1 differ by more than 2 (mod 12), there's no way to get all 12

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. If group0 and group1 differ by at least 2 (mod 12), there's no way to get all 12
```

> 4. If group0 and group1 differ by more than 2 (mod 12), there's no way to get all 12

Reviewer 6: Doesn't the official solution already explain this well enough. Also, if you're going to put the video solution, you should remove this written solution.

Reviewer 2: > Doesn't the official solution already explain this well enough?

based on this; no https://github.com/cpinitiative/usaco-guide/issues/870#issue-816921172

> Also, if you're going to put the video solution, you should remove this written solution.

some people prefer text, others prefer video so i think it's fine

## Video Solution

<Youtube id="vMA54A2AT0I" />

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int N;
vector<int> edges[100000];
int A[100000];
int sum0, sum1, nodes0, nodes1;

void dfs(int i, int color, int par) {
	// update color/sum
	if (color == 0) {
		nodes0++;
		sum0 += A[i];
	}
	else {
		nodes1++;
		sum1 += A[i];
	}
	

> 	for(int j = 0; j < edges[i].size(); j++) {

Reviewer 4: also pretty minor but why don't you use a for-each loop here? (`for (int j: edges[i])`)

		if (edges[i][j] != par) {
			// swap colors for the child
			dfs(edges[i][j], 1 - color, i);
		}
	}
}

int main() {
	freopen("clocktree.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("clocktree.out", "w", stdout);
	

> 	int a, b;

Reviewer 4: why are `a,b` up here

Author: Edited and moved a, b to inside the loop

As both sums increase by one, the difference between the sums does not change.
This process repeats until all clocks reach 12.

> We can check the initial sum difference between the two groups (mod 12) to figure out the final clock numbers, where we define group0 and group1 as the two groups we get after putting all rooms into the biparte partition.

Reviewer 4: bipartite

Author: sorry, changed!
